Just as a small tangent, uh, your master's thesis is also fascinating. Um,
maybe we could talk about it for just a little bit it's, uh,
titled influence of a Star's evolution on this planetary system.
So this interplay between a star and a planet,
is there something interesting you could say about what you've learned about
this, this journey that, uh,
star takes and the planets around it?
Well, it,
when I was younger and I was told what would happen ultimately to the earth,
as the sun expands towards a red giant, and, you know,
mercury would just like fall in and then, you know,
Venus fall in and the son doesn't care and it just seemed
so I felt so small.
I felt like the earth and everything on it. It's just the universe doesn't care.
Even our son doesn't care. And I think,
I felt like our son should feel some sort of responsibility for its planets,
you know? Yes. Yeah. And it just felt like such a island and neglectful parent.
It's like a parent eating its own children.
It's horrible. It's just a horrible notion. Uh,
but it made me think what if this there's some sort of generation.
And so at the time when I was doing my masters,
there was a notion of the white dwarf cemetery,
which is this idea that when stars become white dwarfs that death,
this so horrible,
that planets potentially habitable planets that could have been habitable before
they're now gone. There's no, there's no chance for life. But then I thought,
what if life returns? You know, now it's a white dwarf. It's calmed down.
It's not gonna go anywhere. White dwarfs,
very stable across like universal time scales.
And so could you have planets around a white dwarf that could themselves
get life again? Mm-hmm, <affirmative>, you know, um, life doesn't care.
And so my work was basically killing
dozens of planets. Thousands of times,
I just ran thousands and thousands of end body simulations. Oh,
you simulated this. Yeah. So I simulated dark, wow.
Growing and just eating all these planets up and just absolute chaos. Um,
the orbits of the planets would change as the star loses mass.
So you would have like Jupiter planet,
like planets just crashing into the other planets,
throwing them into the sun early. It was
terrifying to watch these simulations. It was, um,
absolute carnage. But if you run thousands of these simulations,
some systems find new balance ways of staying alive. Some,
uh, systems post star death find stable orbits again
for billions of years, more than enough for life to originate again.
And so that was my idea. During that time,
that pieces was trying to explore
this notion of life coming back.
And this idea of the universe doesn't care if you're here or not,
and it will go about its business, you know,
Andrada will crash into us and doesn't care.
No one cares if you're alive in the universe.
And so letting go of that preciousness of life,
I found very useful at that stage of my career. And instead, I just thought,
what of, if life is inevitable,
it doesn't matter that it came by 4 billion years ago.
It can start again 4 billion years later. And maybe that is nice.
Maybe that's where hope lies the Phoenix rising, everywhere,
planet being destroyed and created. And we're here now.
And others will be more or less here-ish billions of years later. So accepting.
The cycle of death and life and, uh, yeah.
And not taking it personally, not taking it personally,
the son doesn't owe anything. Yeah. It's not a bad parent.
It's not a parent at all.
Yeah. I look at it.
The work of Freeman Dyson and seeing how it,
how this universe eventually will just be a bunch of super massive black holes
before they.
Also Eva break bunch of tiny black holes too. Yeah, absolutely quiet everyone.
All the black holes,
a little too far away from one another to even interact until it's just silence
forever. But until then many,
many cycles of death and destruction and rebirth.
And rebirth.